---
layout: post
title:  "The spectacle of the scaffold"
date:   2025-07-17 01:11:03 +0000
categories: others
---

The element of pain is embedded in the whole process of juridical practice in old times-from the investigation to the establishment of facts and the public execution. In most European countries, investigation of a crime was undertaken secretly. Such principle of secrecy has endowed a groups of specialists –magistrates and judges -the “monopoly” of the establishing juridical truth. Investigation is also accompanied by juridical torture. In most of the cases, juridical pain is quantified and calculated so that production of pain can be rigorously regulated according to the gravity ofcrime. Such calculation of pain echoes the continuous gradation instead of dichotomous nature of crime. Each piece of evidence would add to the gravity of a misdeed that deserves certain degree of pain, and corporal punishment in turn contributes to eliciting the missing facts. That is to say, judicial torture has the dualfunction of punishment and investigation.

But merely evidencing a crime is not enough. The whole procedure would be complemented by a confession which transforms the piles of evidence to an established fact, and a public execution which reveals the truth to the population. The power dose not fully triumph until the condemned “signed the truth of thepreliminary investigation” in public. By bearing the signs of guilt, by publishing the truth and by symbolically reproducing the original scene of crime, the tortured body provides “synthesis of the reality of the deeds and the truth of the investigation, of the documents and the case ofthe criminal, of the crime and the punishment”.

The function of public execution is both juridical and political. Let’s stop here and ask, who on earth the crime actually offended? Instead of violating the written ordinance and regulations, the crimeis more direct an offence to those whose will the law represents-the prince himself. Therefore, the violated sovereign power would restore itself by seeking revenge on its enemies.It thus seizes the body of the offender, having it tortured and destroyed. It demonstrates its overwhelming strength in public and inscribes the lesson deeply in their hearts. The theme of the ritual of punishment is absolutely triumph. The sovereign always triumphs and he triumphs with an irreversible imbalanced and unconstrained power- he could have the body of the condemned marked and reduced to dust; he could pardon the condemned at the last moment; he could erase the crime; he could either relentlessly seek his vengeance or mercifully suspend the law as his will.

The documents of public torture before 19th century are filled with all kinds of atrocious punitive techniques beyond our imagination and agonies punch our hearts. Yet what sustains the act of so atrocious a punitive practice? It seems that the public torture is never ashamed of being atrocious; instead, it deliberately intends to arouse terror. It is the power which is eager to manifest and recharge itself on the condemned bodies that sustains its ongoing functioning.

The people also play their roles in the speculation of punishment. They are summoned to observe the execution, toterrorize upon the overwhelming power, and also to perform their “scaffold service” by joining the vengeance and torturing the offender. That’s why violence targeted at the condemned can be tolerated for a moment during public execution. However, the crowd can go too far such that they might reject and protest against those juridical practices deemed unnecessarily tolerant or severe. People are never closer to the power than in the terror of public execution; They never see more vivid a picture of the invincibility of the power. Fear and threats might result in solidarity between the population and the offenders. Like the sovereign power, such solidarity also constantly recharges itself along with the spectacle of public execution.

This unexpected solidarity is mostly likely to arise in the repentance session, i.e. during the “gallows speeches”. As we’ve discussed, justice needs the collaboration of the condemned and the population to be established as truth. To enhance this, the accounts of the criminal might be widely advertised before or after the execution; the condemned is also required to repent on his villainy under the gallows. However, a paradox may arise. A repentance might bring the condemned to purification and makes asaint; yet a refusal to repent - an indomitability- makes a hero: “he gave proof of a strength that no powerhad succeeded in bending” .The latter represents a heroic rebellion, turning the effort of the sovereign power into total futility and demonstrating a stronger will in front of the population.

Nevertheless, such reversal has not undergone unnoticed. Response to this reversal is a shift of the punitive focus from confrontation to investigation. “We have moved from the exposition of the facts or the confession to the slow process of discovery; ….; from the physical confrontation to the intellectual struggle between criminal and investigator”. New practice of punishmentas well as new literature of the crime deprives peoples’ participation in heroizing the criminals. Criminals in modern time are depicted as cunning and witty, playing around with the investigator and usually remaining at large (Indeed! See Prof.Moriarty). Modern crimes thus become an art of the intelligent, where the ordinary people are too simple to resonate and take part in. Here comes an era of new discourse of power and punishment.
